======
Fabric
======

Status
======

This documentation is for Fabric's currently in-development version, which will
eventually become Fabric 1.0. As such, it is subject to change and will not be
set in stone until the beta release at the earliest. Additionally, the code and
documentation may at times be out of sync, so please keep this in mind.


About
=====

.. include:: ../README


Installation
=====================

Latest stable version
---------------------

Stable releases of Fabric are best installed via ``easy_install`` or ``pip``;
or you may download TGZ or ZIP source archives from a couple of official
locations. Detailed instructions and links may be found on the
:doc:`installation` page.

Development version
-------------------

We recommend using the stable version of Fabric; releases are made often to
prevent any large gaps in functionality between the latest stable release and
the development version.

However, if you want to live on the edge, you can pull down the latest source
code from our Git repository, or fork us on Github. Please see the
:doc:`development` page for details.


Getting help
============

Mailing list
------------

The best way to get help with using Fabric is via the `fab-user mailing list
<http://lists.nongnu.org/mailman/listinfo/fab-user>`_ (currently hosted at
``nongnu.org``.) The Fabric developers do their best to reply promptly, and the
list contains an active community of other Fabric users and contributors as
well.

.. _bugs:

Bugs
----

To file new bugs or search existing ones, you may visit Fabric's `Redmine
<http://redmine.org>`_ instance, located at `code.fabfile.org
<http://code.fabfile.org>`_. Anonymous users can currently post new tickets and
comments, but the system may be locked down in the future to prevent spam, so
we highly recommend registering an account.

Wiki
----

There is an official Fabric wiki reachable at `wiki.fabfile.org
<http://wiki.fabfile.org>`_, although as of this writing its usage patterns
are still being worked out. There is a `TodoList page
<http://wiki.fabfile.org/TodoList>`_ which may also be used to submit bug
reports, as an alternative to sending email. The wiki is currently locked due
to spammers, so you'll need to register an account in order to edit or add new
pages.


Documentation
=============

The below table of contents lists all of Fabric's prose (non-API)
documentation, and is the best place to get started with using Fabric. See the
:ref:`api` and :ref:`contrib` sections for API documentation.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3

    installation
    development
    usage
    compatibility

.. _api:

Core API
========

Below is Fabric's core API documentation, which is autogenerated from the
source code's docstrings (which are typically very thorough.) The core API is
loosely defined as those functions, classes and methods which form the basic
building blocks of the framework, such as `run` and `sudo`, used by fabfiles
and the below :ref:`contrib` codebase.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :glob:

    api/*


.. _contrib:

Contrib
=======

Fabric's contrib package contains commonly useful tools (often merged in from
user fabfiles) for tasks such as user IO, modifying remote files and so forth.
While the core API is likely to remain small and relatively unchanged over
time, this contrib section will grow as more use-cases are solved and added.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :glob:

    contrib/*


Indices and tables
==================

Sphinx's autogenerated index, module index and search page.

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
